---
layout: page
title: Billing Module
language: en
category: articles
---

ClouDesire provides complete billing features.
This section will explain some main concepts and implemented use-cases.

#Glossary
 * **Application**: a web-based (or MS Windows desktop) software product
 * **Vendor**: a user that offers his applications in the ClouDesire Marketplace. Each application can have a specific **recurrent license** or can be offered for free. In addition, the vendor can specify **custom metrics** for his applications (eg. number of users, number of documents, etc.) specifying the related unit price; in this way, **pay-per-use** pricing models can be defined (eg. 10 USD per active user, 20 USD per document, etc.)
 * **Customer**: a user that buys applications in the ClouDesire Marketplace
 * **Order**: when a customer buys an application, ClouDesire creates an *order* that contains the following information: duration (eg. 1 year, 6 months, etc.), nominee (the customer name), purchased application name, order type (can be *normal*, *trial*, *sandbox*, *upgrade*, *renewal*), total amount
 * **Subscription**: for each order, ClouDesire creates a *subscription* that has a specific lifetime, depending on the order duration. In the case of renewal of a subscription, a new order is created (“renewal order”).
 * **Invoice**: during the subscription lifetime, ClouDesire issues a certain number of invoices to the customers, depending on the **Billing Period** (eg. every month, every 3 months, etc.). The Billing Period is a platform configuration setting.
 * **Revenues Report:** a statement that is periodically provided to the vendor, containing a summary of all the revenues generated by the sales of his applications in a certain period of time (greater than the Billing Period). The revenues corresponds to the total amount of the applications licenses sold plus the *pay-per-use application metrics* revenues, minus the **ClouDesire fee**.

#Main Concepts

##Invoices
Each ClouDesire invoice contains the following items:

 * nominee (the customer name)
 * purchased application name
 * application recurrent license cost
 * *pay-per-use application metrics* costs (eg. 1.000,00 USD for 10 active users in the previous billing period)
 * IaaS costs (VM instance, bandwidth, disk space)

##Billing Rules
 * at the beginning of the billing period (eg. the first day of every month) all the invoices containing the application licenses costs and the IaaS costs are issued **in advance** to the customers
 * on the contrary, at the end of the billing period (eg. the last day of every month) all the invoices containing the pay-per-use application metrics costs are issued to the customers
 * if an application is offered in **trial mode**, when the customer uses (tries) it, ClouDesire issues an invoice to the vendor for the related IaaS costs. These costs are subtracted from the vendors' revenues in the Revenues Report.
 * when the vendor executes a **deployment test** before offering his application in the Marketplace (*sandbox*), ClouDesire issues an invoice to him for the related IaaS costs. Also in this case, these costs are subtracted from the vendor's revenues in the Revenues Report.

##Level of Configurability
 * every vendor can decide his preferred **billing frequency** (that is a multiple of the billing period). For example, if the platform configured billing period is 2 months, the billing frequency that the vendor can choose could be 4 months, 6 months, etc.
 * every customer can decide his preferred **order duration** (that is a multiple of the billing frequency). For example, if the vendor has chosen a billing frequency of 3 months for his application, the customer can choose an order duration of 6 months, 9 months, etc.

##Orders Renewal
 * some days before the subscription expiration, ClouDesire notifies the customer, asking for a renewal and creating an invoice that needs to be paid by him
 * if the customer doesn't renew his subscription (i.e. doesn't pay the related invoice), ClouDesire stops (or better *suspends*) the related application's instance and waits some days (the precise number is configurable in the platform) for the payment. If after this period the customer doesn't pay the invoice, ClouDesire destroys the application instance.

##Prepaid Bandwidth Management
 * vendors can freely specify a certain amount of prepaid bandwidth for each application sold in the ClouDesire Marketplace
 * ClouDesire manages the bandwidth price for each supported cloud provider
 * if the vendor doesn't set a specific prepaid bandwidth amount to his application, ClouDesire associates a default prepaid bandwidth package (eg. 10GB)
 * during the deployed application lifetime, if the bandwidth usage exceeds 90% of the established limit, ClouDesire sends a notification email to the customer, asking for a **bandwidth upgrade order**. If the customer doesn't execute the upgrade, ClouDesire prevents access to the application.

##Disk Space Management
 * vendors can freely specify a certain amount of disk space for each application sold in the ClouDesire Marketplace
 * ClouDesire manages the disk space price for each supported cloud provider
 * during the deployed application lifetime, if disk space usage exceeds 90% of the established limit, ClouDesire sends a notification email to the customer, asking for a **disk upgrade order**.

##Backup Management
 * ClouDesire allows the customers to buy **backup plans.**
 * every backup plan includes to a maximum number of backups executions (configurable in the platform) that can be manually performed by the customers or scheduled
 * a backup plan must be paid by the customer in advance
 * if the customer needs to perform a manual backup when the maximum limit in the backup plan is reached, a new **backup order** is created and a related invoice is issued. In this case, the backup starts only when the invoice is paid.

##Payments
 * to date, the supported payment gateway is **PayPal**
 * after the sale of an application, when the customer pays the related invoice, normally ClouDesire automatically starts the application deployment process on the selected cloud provider. A specific platform configuration parameter, allows the administrator to modify this default workflow, expecting an explicit vendor approval before starting the deployment process. 
